Add parameters and tip notes (#24640)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/opentelemetry/database/mssql/windows-rds.mdx

<Step>

## Configure NRDOT Collector [#configure-sql]

Select your configuration type based on your monitoring needs:

<CollapserGroup>

<Collapser
  id="low-data-mode-sql"

>   title="Core Observability"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="standard"
  title="Standard configuration"
```

      label: 'New Relic OTLP Endpoint',
      codeLine: 69,
      defaultValue: 'https://otlp.nr-data.net',

>       toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net or https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net). For more information, refer to /docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint. For more information, refer to https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',
```

  onChange={() => {}}
/>

</Collapser>

<Collapser
  id="all-capabilities-sql"

>   title="All Capabilities"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="all"
  title="Full-feature configuration"
```

>

This configuration provides comprehensive database monitoring with all available metrics.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint will be in the format: `your-db-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.region.rds.amazonaws.com` (e.g., `mydb-instance.c9akciq32.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`). Find this in your AWS RDS Console under "Connectivity & security".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint uses the format: `YOUR_DB_INSTANCE.YOUR_AWS_IDENTIFIER.YOUR_REGION.rds.amazonaws.com` (for example, `mydb-instance.c9akciq32.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`). Locate this in the **AWS RDS console** under **Connectivity & security**.
```

</Callout>

1. **Create the configuration file.** The filename must be `mssql-config.yaml`. Run the following command in PowerShell as Administrator:

   ```powershell
   New-Item -Path "C:\Program Files\nrdot-collector\mssql-config.yaml" -ItemType File
   ```

> 2. **Add the configuration content below to the mssql-config.yaml file** you created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the configuration content below to the `mssql-config.yaml` file you created in the previous step.
```

**Enter your values below and see the configuration update in real-time:**

<AgentConfig
  inputOptions={[
    {
      name: 'username',
      label: 'SQL Server Username',
      codeLine: 4,
      defaultValue: 'newrelic',
      toolTip: 'Enter your SQL Server username',
    },
    {
      name: 'password',
      label: 'SQL Server Password',
      codeLine: 5,
      defaultValue: 'your_password',
      toolTip: 'Enter your SQL Server password',
    },
    {
      name: 'server',
      label: 'RDS Endpoint',
      codeLine: 6,
      defaultValue: 'mydb-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com',
      toolTip: 'Enter your RDS SQL Server endpoint',
    },
    {
      name: 'port',
      label: 'Server Port',
      codeLine: 7,
      defaultValue: '1433',
      toolTip: 'Enter your SQL Server port number (default: 1433)',
    },
    {
      name: 'endpoint',
      label: 'New Relic OTLP Endpoint',
      codeLine: 233,
      defaultValue: 'https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318',

>       toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318 or https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4318). For more information, refer to /docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint. For more information, refer to https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',
```

  memory_limiter:
    check_interval: \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_CHECK_INTERVAL:-1s}
    limit_mib:       \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_LIMIT_MIB:-500}
    spike_limit_mib: \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_SPIKE_MIB:-50}

  batch:

exporters:
  otlphttp:
    endpoint: <input5>
    headers:
      api-key: <input6>
    tls:
      insecure: false
    compression: gzip

service:
  telemetry:
    metrics:
      level: none

  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [nrsqlserver]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [otlphttp]

    logs:
      receivers: [nrsqlserver]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [otlphttp]`}
  fileName="mssql-config.yaml"
  tipMdx={{ body: null }}
  onChange={() => {}}
/>

</Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

### Configuration parameters

The following table describes the key configuration parameters for the nrsqlserver receiver:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `username` | Enter your database username for authentication |
| `password` | Enter your database password for authentication |
| `server` | Enter your RDS SQL Server endpoint |
| `port` | Enter your SQL Server port number. The default value is 1433. |

> | `endpoint` | Enter the New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net). For more information, refer to [New Relic OTLP endpoints documentation](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `endpoint` | Enter the New Relic OTLP endpoint . For more information, refer to [New Relic OTLP endpoints documentation](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/). |
```

<Step>

## Configure NRDOT Collector [#configure-domain]

Select your configuration type based on your monitoring needs:

<CollapserGroup>

<Collapser
  id="low-data-mode-domain"

>   title="Core Observability"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="sc"
  title="Standard configuration"
```

**Note:** If you enable all available metrics, increase the `limit_mib` value (e.g., 1000) to prevent the memory limiter from dropping data.
</Callout>

</Collapser>

<Collapser
  id="all-capabilities-domain"

>   title="All Capabilities"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="ffc"
  title="Full-feature configuration"
```

>

This configuration provides comprehensive database monitoring with all available metrics.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint will be in the format: `your-db-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.region.rds.amazonaws.com`. Find this in your AWS RDS Console under "Connectivity & security".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint uses the format: `YOUR_DB_INSTANCE.YOUR_AWS_IDENTIFIER.YOUR_REGION.rds.amazonaws.com` (for example, `mydb-instance.c9akciq32.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`). Locate this in the **AWS RDS console** under **Connectivity & security**.
```

</Callout>

1. **Create the configuration file.** The filename must be `mssql-config.yaml`. Run the following command in PowerShell as Administrator:

   ```powershell
   New-Item -Path "C:\Program Files\nrdot-collector\mssql-config.yaml" -ItemType File
   ```

2. **Add the configuration content below to the mssql-config.yaml file** you created in the previous step.

**Enter your values below and see the configuration update in real-time:**

<AgentConfig
  inputOptions={[
    {
      name: 'server',
      label: 'RDS Endpoint',
      codeLine: 4,
      defaultValue: 'mydb-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com',
      toolTip: 'Enter your RDS SQL Server endpoint',
    },
    {
      name: 'endpoint',
      label: 'New Relic OTLP Endpoint',
      codeLine: 230,
      defaultValue: 'https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318',

>       toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318 or https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4318). For more information, refer to /docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint. For more information, refer to https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',
```

<Step>

## Configure NRDOT Collector [#configure-gmsa]

Select your configuration type based on your monitoring needs:

<CollapserGroup>

<Collapser
  id="low-data-mode-gmsa"

>   title="Core Observability"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="gmsa-standard"
  title="Standard configuration"
```

Example with RDS endpoint: `server=mydb-instance.c9akciq32.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`

</Collapser>

<Collapser
  id="all-capabilities-gmsa"

>   title="All Capabilities"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  id="ffc-gmsa"
  title="Full-feature configuration"
```

>

This configuration provides comprehensive database monitoring with all available metrics.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint will be in the format: `your-db-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.region.rds.amazonaws.com`. Find this in your AWS RDS Console under "Connectivity & security".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **RDS Endpoint Format:** Your RDS endpoint uses the format: `YOUR_DB_INSTANCE.YOUR_AWS_IDENTIFIER.YOUR_REGION.rds.amazonaws.com` (for example, `mydb-instance.c9akciq32.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com`). Locate this in the **AWS RDS console** under **Connectivity & security**.
```

</Callout>

1. **Create the configuration file.** The filename must be `mssql-config.yaml`. Run the following command in PowerShell as Administrator:

   ```powershell
   New-Item -Path "C:\Program Files\nrdot-collector\mssql-config.yaml" -ItemType File
   ```

> 2. **Add the configuration content below to the mssql-config.yaml file** you created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the configuration content below to the `mssql-config.yaml` file you created in the previous step.
```

**Enter your values below and see the configuration update in real-time:**

<AgentConfig
  inputOptions={[
    {
      name: 'server',
      label: 'RDS Endpoint',
      codeLine: 4,
      defaultValue: 'mydb-instance.xxxxxxxxxxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com',
      toolTip: 'Enter your RDS SQL Server endpoint',
    },
    {
      name: 'endpoint',
      label: 'New Relic OTLP Endpoint',
      codeLine: 230,
      defaultValue: 'https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318',

>       toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318 or https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net:4318). For more information, refer to /docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      toolTip: 'Enter your New Relic OTLP endpoint. For more information, refer to https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/',
```

    allowed_comment_keys:
      - nr_service_guid

    query_sample_collection:
      max_rows_per_query: 100

processors:
  memory_limiter:
    check_interval: \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_CHECK_INTERVAL:-1s}
    limit_mib:       \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_LIMIT_MIB:-500}
    spike_limit_mib: \${env:NR_MEM_LIMITER_SPIKE_MIB:-50}

  batch:

exporters:
  otlphttp:
    endpoint: <input2>
    headers:
      api-key: <input3>
    tls:
      insecure: false
    compression: gzip

service:
  telemetry:
    metrics:
      level: none

  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [nrsqlserver]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [otlphttp]

    logs:
      receivers: [nrsqlserver]
      processors: [memory_limiter, batch]
      exporters: [otlphttp]`}
  fileName="mssql-config.yaml"
  tipMdx={{ body: null }}
  onChange={() => {}}
/>

</Collapser>

</CollapserGroup>

### Configuration parameters

The following table describes the key configuration parameters for the nrsqlserver receiver:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `server` | Enter your RDS SQL Server endpoint |
| `port` | Enter your SQL Server port number. The default value is 1433. |

> | `endpoint` | Enter the New Relic OTLP endpoint (e.g., https://otlp.nr-data.net). For more information, refer to [New Relic OTLP endpoints documentation](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `endpoint` | Enter the New Relic OTLP endpoint. For more information, refer to [New Relic OTLP endpoints documentation](/docs/opentelemetry/best-practices/opentelemetry-otlp/). |
```
